### Technical Background

The Web uses a very simple program load model which is both a source of strength and weakness for web apps. <a href="http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~mwalfish/papers/zoog-hotnets11.pdf" target="_top">Some particular properties are collected in a paper by Microsoft and UTexas researchers</a> -- they list the positive traits as Isolation, Richness, On-demand, and Networked (IRON). Broadly speaking, they argue that without the IRON properties, the Web would be too dangerous or too unsophisticated to get any use of.

What the Web lacks, however, is a structured environment for client-side scripts to co-operate. We now have Web Workers, <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/12209657/how-can-i-sandbox-untrusted-user-submitted-javascript-content" target="_top"> which can safely sandbox a script</a>, but can't touch the DOM API. That limits their use for general-purpose applications. The other option&mdash;the iframe&mdash;is kept in the same thread as the parent document, making denial-of-service attacks on the processor possible. Neither option is structured for configurability.

Without a client-side program environment, the client has limited means to inject its own software into the service stack. Sites will usually serve one UI with one feature-set, and then go no further because they can't compose with other apps. Of our other options, Greasemonkey tends to only decorate UIs, and third-party sites are still one UI with one feature-set. A more robust, IRON alternative is needed, which is the motivation for <a href="httpl://grimwire.com/local" target="_top" title="Local">Local</a>, and this deployment of Local, <a href="http://grimwire.com" title="Grimwire" target="_top">Grimwire</a>.