### Project Overview

The Web Workers `postMessage` API is no more limited than a stream socket. What's absent from it is a messaging protocol which can be addressed by name (rather than by object reference) and which has enough power to serve interfaces and export functionality. A few options were examined, including RPC (as demonstrated by <a href="https://github.com/lawnsea/TreeHouse" target="_top">TreeHouse</a>) but the final choice for Grimwire was an emulation of HTTP called <a href="http://grimwire.com/local" target="_top" title="Local">HTTPLocal</a>. This is the foundation to its client-side environment, which organizes applications into a URL namespace and forms the interface out of the resources they serve.

By adding a program structure, the client gains configurability. Users can choose scripts to populate the client, and those applications can operate much like processes do in an operating system. Note, though, that the client structure is not enforced across domains, because the browser is still a thin client. Rather, the structure-- the client environment-- is delivered in a document, just as any other web app. The user applications load subsequently and behave according to the document's rules.

This has the advantage that any site to deliver a custom application platform for their users to leverage. The added flexibility makes it possible for developers to experiment with different approaches to the program model and environment UX. The disadvantage, however, is the lack of consistency guarantees across hosts. Users must trust the domain serving the client environment, both in terms of correctness and good intent. If the document itself is compromised, the security model fails completely.

Grimwire is one such client environment built on <a href="http://grimwire.com/local" target="_top" title="Local">Local</a>. It will be designed as an easy-to-use, general-purpose computing environment, with a strong focus on connectivity between users. The service is not currently available to users, but the source code is (and always will be) <a href="https://github.com/pfraze/grimwire" target="_top">available on github for private deployment</a>.